content/_index.md, before:

---
title: Home
---

## MCP Security

A new protocol requires a new policy

### De-risk AI. Avoid disaster.

In the time it took you to read this there was a major security breach caused by an AI agent

...we just don't know about it, yet.

### Intercept. Analyze. Control.

Maybe Don't AI sits between AI agents and MCP servers, monitoring every request — requiring validation on nefarious actions before they happen.

### Enterprise-Grade Security

Zero visibility means big risk. Don't be tomorrow's headline. Build security into AI workflows with real-time auditing.

### Easy Integration

Plug-and-play APIs. Start intercepting AI activity in minutes, not months. See everything and stop bad AI actors in real time.

### Don't be the breach story.

Try it out during our early access phase, and please send us all the feedback.

Maybe Don't AI uses a combination of ai detection, a policy engine, human in the loop (where necessary) and anomaly detection to give you confidence with your ai agents.

[Talk to a founder to learn more](https://zcal.co/kendallm/30min)
{.call-to-action}

Commit message:

website language changes (#27)
going hard on non-deterministic policy engine

content/_index.md, after:

---
title: Home
---

## The World's First Non-Deterministic Policy Engine
### For AI Agent/MCP Security

AI agents don't follow carefully constructed scripts. Your policies shouldn't depend on them either.

### De-risk AI. Avoid disaster.

In the time it took you to read this there was a major security breach caused by an AI agent

...we just don't know about it, yet.

AI agents are increasingly acting on our behalf, but far too often they make incredibly costly mistakes.

### Intercept. Analyze. Control.

Maybe Don't AI sits between AI agents and MCP servers, monitoring every request — requiring validation on nefarious actions before they happen.

### Enterprise-Grade Security

Zero visibility means big risk. Don't be tomorrow's headline. Build security into AI workflows with real-time auditing.

### Easy Integration

Plug-and-play APIs. Start intercepting AI activity in minutes, not months. See everything and stop bad AI actors in real time.

### Don't be the breach story.

Maybe Don't AI uses a combination of AI policy, a traditional policy engine, human in the loop (where necessary) and anomaly detection to give you confidence with your AI agents.

[Talk to a founder to learn more](https://cal.com/kmillermd/30min)
{.call-to-action}
